Welcome to this edition of the Iowa Blog.
I am your host, Craig Wynn.
We get to celebrate it in our ocean
studio today.
It is a Friday afternoon here in the
U.S.
Virgin Islands.
I think today is the fifth of December.
You know,
time kind of mellows to the point where
it's difficult to know exactly where we
are on the calendar as
is beautiful.
I hope you enjoy the scenes of the
ocean that will be presented throughout
this program behind me.
We have Rich at the controls,
and I am certain that he will find
a way to share this beautiful scene with
you.
Our study today is based upon a mizmor
that we began just in our last program.
We had begun to discuss the opening of
the sixth mizmor, or Psalm of Dode.
It was interesting because it was a
celebration of the eighth octave,
and the fact of the matter is that
on a piano there are seven keys and
an eighth octave would be well beyond
human capacity to both hear, of course,
also to sing,
and even beyond instruments to play.
But it is not beyond where we are
headed,
because while God's plan is delineated in
six plus one equals seven, in other words,
it took us six thousand years after we
were booted out of the Gan Eden for
us to be able to return,
But principally because, well,
we didn't measure up in the garden.
The fact is that neither Adam nor Chawa
was worth a hoot.
Neither of them listened to God.
Neither of them responded appropriately to
Yahweh.
Neither of them engaged and contributed
anything to the garden.
So they didn't want to work.
And they certainly showed themselves to be
unreliable.
And God knew that it was going to
take a long time for us to figure
our way back,
for us to earn his trust,
for us to show that we were willing
to make a contribution and therefore be
additive as opposed to simply being a
dependent.
And as well,
show that we can get up when we
fall down.
Show that we're willing and able to learn.
And it was all a marvelous story.
And we've
shared the sentiments of this throughout
the programs that we're doing in the
library studio on our return to the
garden.
And
In this light,
one of the things I want to share
is that while Adam depicted everything
that God does not like, he didn't listen,
he was not responsive,
he didn't engage and work and made no
contribution of any kind,
and he proved himself to be unreliable as
well as uninteresting.
He had no character.
Dode is the opposite of these things.
Dode is the man who
worked more diligently with Yahweh than
any other.
He is the man that not only drew
Israel together as a nation,
brought them into Jerusalem as the
capital, acquired the Temple Mount,
but successfully defended God's people.
He wrote between Mismore and Mishal,
Proverbs and Psalms, a hundred verses.
He was prolific in terms of his study
of the Torah,
as well as his literature exclaiming it.
And beyond this defense of Israel,
the unification of Israel,
the building the city of Dode and
Jerusalem,
acquiring the Temple Mount and writing
these legendary examples of
of poetry and prose,
Dode also volunteered to serve as the
Passover lamb and take our guilt into
shield on Matzah and be the living
embodiment of B'kodim.
And so Dode is the antidote for the
failures of Adam.
He is the proof text that man having
fallen can get back up
No one was better at stubbing their toe
and then figuring out that there is more
to do.
We need to get back up,
dust ourselves off, and go again.
No one was better at this than Dode.
It was why that whole series that we
did that led to Second Samuel Six,
where Dode gave up on moving the Ark
of the Covenant into Jerusalem when...
God's metaphor of the bull pulling the Ark
of the Covenant position in the proper
place was misunderstood by Dode.
And then he had Obed-Edom fill in and
Dode figured out, you know,
if God's going to arrange Obed-Edom to
resolve this for me,
I might as well just celebrate.
I'm going to put on the regalia of
the high priest.
I'm going to party hardy and we're going
to enjoy this whole process.
Dode was resilient.
He was willing to get up and to
do this.
And even when you consider how kind of
at a low point Dode's first life ended,
the highest point any life has ever lived
to acclaim is his fulfillment of Pesach,
Matz and Makotam and
Thirty-three CE, year four thousand years.
And of course,
for having done so and having earned God's
respect,
he's going to return as king of
forevermore.
So Dode is the antidote.
He is the exemplar.
He's not only the exemplar of the
covenant,
which is what Yahweh said in the
eighty-ninth mizmor.
He is also the one who facilitated the
benefits of the covenant.
Another thing that God exclaimed of Dode.
In the Eighty-Ninth Mismore,
Dode made the covenant possible because he
fulfilled Pesach, Matzah, and B'Kurim.
And so there just is no one that
is better than Dode.
And one of the things that makes Dode
so much of an ideal exemplar for us
is the realization he was often wrong.
He didn't always get it right.
He stubbed his toe.
He tripped.
He fell.
He was human.
He just was extraordinary as a human.
He got back up every time.
You know, he learned his lesson.
He studied more and grew as a result.
He corrected what he had wrong.
And all the while he remained devoted to
Yahuwah, knew God's name,
proclaimed salvation.
Yahweh's name,
knew his role in the fulfillment of
Pesach, Mots and Mokotah,
which is why he wrote the twenty-second
and eighty-eighth Mismores.
Dode is the man.
He is absolutely extraordinary.
When it comes to knowing God and engaging
in a relationship with him,
The only thing that could even possibly
rival getting his name right, Yahweh,
recognizing that God is one and therefore
he cannot be Jesus.
He cannot be a Holy Spirit.
He cannot be Allah.
He cannot be Mama God.
He is one.
He is not Hashem.
He is Yahweh.
The only thing that would even come close
to rivaling those realizations is that
Yahweh has a chosen one.
He has an anointed Messiah.
He has his choice of our king.
He has a man that he said,
he is my son and I am his
father.
He's the one who Yahweh in the eighty
ninth Mismore said,
everything that's important to you.
Your life,
the fulfillment of enablement of the
covenant, very model of the covenant.
It all revolves around doubt.
He is the one who was the first
to demonstrate that we could measure up.
Yes,
there are some wonderful examples along
the way of kind of people who tease
at this.
I think the story of Noach and the
fact that he listened to God,
did as God said,
and therefore he and his family were
spared along with the life forms of
around the area of the Black Sea from
the tsunami that was caused by the Berkel
impact crater.
I think that he's a marvelous exemplar,
if you will.
And I think the fact that Abraham and
Sarah,
by having walked away from Babylon and
having listened to God's narrative on the
covenant and then shown that Abraham
when Abraham and Yishak climbed Mount
Moriah as the dress rehearsal for
Passover,
that they understood the concept that God
was trying to convey.
I think it's another marvelous exemplar,
but it really all comes together.
That's why he is the fulcrum.
He is the cornerstone.
That's why his life was lived right in
the middle of the human story.
Three thousand years after we were
expelled from the garden and three
thousand years before we will return to
the garden.
And everything I could tell you,
there really is nothing more important
than you recognizing that Yahweh is God's
name.
Yahweh is one and is his one and
only name.
He is known through his Torah and prophets
and nowhere else.
And that Dode is his chosen one,
his beloved son,
through whom all of these things are now
possible to us.
So this sentiment regarding the eighth
octave is important because while six plus
one is God's formula,
we have six Moed Mikre that lead to
the result, Pesach, Matzah, and Mokotem.
And then...
Shabuwa, Teruah, Kippurim, and Sukkah.
And while that's God's cornerstone or the
formula that God uses,
that's not the end of the story.
There is an octave beyond that,
the eighth octave,
because we will spend year six thousand to
year seven thousand demonstrating that
given the opportunity to return to the
garden, which God's going to facilitate.
access to the tree of knowledge,
which is the whole purpose of the Choder,
that God's people can be equipped such
that they prove themselves worthy of being
released from
enclosure the protective enclosure that's
conducive to life of planet earth and that
we will be free to travel with yahweh
throughout the universe but for that we
have to prove ourselves interesting we
have to prove that we're willing to listen
to respond to learn to grow to understand
to appreciate who he is and what he
has achieved uh and
demonstrate we're willing to engage and
and engage in what matters to him
consistent with everything he has shared
we have a thousand years to prepare people
for that and it leads us to year
eight thousand yeah and that is when this
Mortal remnant is ultimately going to be
given their wings and we will all be
able to be released into the universe to
explore every dimension with God because
he will know that he can enjoy our
company and that we will grow in his
presence and that he can trust us.
it's an extraordinary set of circumstances
so the purpose of the breath covenant and
of the torah guidance is presented as as
pervasively demonstrated and proven
persuasive and and the evidence that god
provides for it through dode and it's all
through dode he is the centerpiece of this
entire story you know i was
reading today of the, you know,
there's this cult of mother goddesses that
their entire modus operandi this day,
the only thing they've got going for them
is to play off my name,
to hashtag my name and Yada Yawa,
of which, you know,
Yawa has used for the past twenty four
years and taught, developed,
worked through and offered the benefits of
the thirty five books that Yada Yawa dot
com and
now the Yawa blog.
And their only thing that they can do,
uh,
that they do publicly is to hashtag my
name and hashtag Yada Yawa, uh,
hashtag even Yawa,
which is the proper pronunciation that I
introduced of Yawa's name to disparage me,
everyone who is associated with me, um,
which would be all of you who are
listening, uh, and, uh, also, uh, don't,
uh,
They have gone full in on now on
disclaiming Dode as the Messiah,
the son of God,
or the savior who fulfilled Pesach,
Matzah, and Mekutim.
But of course, by saying that,
then you invoke the eighth mizmor where
Yahweh said,
if everything that I have said about Dode
doesn't turn out to be true,
then you're calling me a liar.
So that is.
what they're doing to uh to yahweh and
it's why god has so much negative to
say about this uh cult um but they
are now all in on denying uh dode
when dode is the antidote for rabbinic
judaism for pauline christianity um and
this cult would have you believe that what
we are saying is that you can substitute
to dode for jesus it's not true at
all in fact not even remotely um
The Christian New Testament is wrong from
beginning to end.
It is absolute utter trash.
You can't just substitute the name David
for Jesus and have something that is
credible.
The purpose of me writing the five volumes
of Twistianity was to show that the
Christian New Testament from beginning to
end is absolute rubbish.
The point that I have made is that
Paul created the myth of Jesus through
counterfeit and through identity theft in
and the reason that he was able to
promote this myth of an is that it
wasn't
a complete lie uh complete lies are
typically impossible to to sell and so the
way that liars prevail is through what
yahweh refers to as babel where you
intermix and commingle truth and lies
together to deceive so that your life
seems somewhat believable and in paul's
case
It was known that there was someone who
claimed to be the son of God,
someone who claimed to be the Messiah,
someone who claimed to be king of Israel,
who was in fact crucified on Passover and
who, in fact,
through his soul,
took our guilt and to Sheol on Matzah.
And that he arrived exactly when he said
he would to do exactly what he said
he would do.
And that was in year four thousand,
which is thirty three C.E.
And so all of that occurred.
And there were many,
many prophecies regarding it occurring.
So what he did is he claimed that
Dode was dead and buried so that all
of the prophecies regarding all of this
and what actually happened in thirty three
C.E.
had to apply to his mythological Ayusu
Christu.
So he just simply robbed Dode of his
life.
Titles and his achievements.
And then he went beyond that, of course,
in his creation of Iosuchristu,
now known as Jesus Christ,
because he did more than simply steal
those titles,
son of God and king and Messiah.
And his accomplishment being the one who
fulfilled Passover by being crucified by
the Romans in thirty three C.E.
He then added a Dionysian flavor to it
to make a religion out of this.
And he made his Iosuchristu a god who
died and was resurrected in the manner of
Dionysus.
And so he then added a whole plethora
of religious mantra to his gospel and
died.
That was the result.
So it seemed plausible to people who were
ignorant,
the Romans and the Greeks who were his
audience,
because they didn't know what the Torah
actually said.
And unfortunately, those who did,
the Jews, they were so ignorant.
into their religious beliefs that they had
no room in their lives for Yahweh,
Yahweh's beloved son, Dode,
the return of the Messiah when he said
he was going to return,
or the actual fulfillment of Pesach,
Matzah, and Likudim.
They had no interest in it,
and so they just passed it by,
and since there was no rebuttal,
Paul's lie prevailed and became the most
popular religion in the world.
So,
The recognition of who Dode actually is
and what he has achieved is the fulcrum
upon which a soul pivots one way or
another,
either into Shamaim favorably and spending
an eternity with God,
dissipating into nothingness because they
were misled,
or being part of those who are now
misleading,
which earns an express ticket into Sheol.
But Dode is the one who demonstrated that
the Torah, rather than condemning us,
perfects us.
It perfects the imperfect.
Dode had to be imperfect.
So this whole idea of the Passover lamb
has to be perfect.
No.
The Passover lamb has to take our guilt
and be the substitute death for our guilt.
It's all laid upon him.
And the whole idea of Tamaim is just
so misunderstood in the minds of the
religious.
For example, guess what?
There is no such thing as a perfect
animal.
None, including humans, by the way.
And so what God, by Tamaim,
is trying to express is that this animal
is not demonstrably flawed,
that if you're going to
honor what Dode did by becoming the
Passover lamb.
You don't take the worst of your flock
and say, well,
we'll sacrifice and eat that one.
You don't do it that way.
You look for the best that you have.
And you offer the best that you have
because that's what God did.
He offered the very best of us in
Dode.
And that's the message.
Now,
though demonstrated that clearly the Torah
perfects the imperfect so that we can
become beloved sons and daughters of
Yahweh.
The sixth mizmor,
then after that introduction,
begins Yahweh,
which is the proper pronunciation of God's
one and only name as directed by his
Torah teaching regarding our haya
existence and our shalom restoration.
Yahweh,
you consistently prove your case through
me with pervasive arguments which
vindicate me and acquit through me.
You use evidence and reason,
engaging in rational dialogue with me,
making decisions and resolving disputes
through me,
demonstrating that you and I are right.
It was the Hiffel, imperfect, Joseph.
Yah is continually enabling Dode to engage
in the process of rational discourse
within the parameters of free will for our
benefit.
thereby eliminating everything displeasing
and disagreeable.
That is the whole purpose of the process.
It's just explained so simply here that
you just have to understand what the words
say.
Yahweh, God's one and only name.
Not Yah-wah, not Yahweh, not Jehovah,
not Hashem, not Adonai,
certainly not Jesus, not Mr. Christ.
Yahweh.
That is God's one and only name.
You consistently prove your case through
me, through dote,
with pervasive arguments which vindicate
me and acquit through me,
thereby eliminating everything displeasing
and disagreeable.
devoid of antagonistic implications or
frustrations.
That is the beauty of it.
You know, I spent some time,
I know it was yesterday,
the day before yesterday.
One of the books had some, you know,
cleanup on aisle nine sort of stuff on
it.
And I was going through it and I
was thinking with the Moed, no,
it was the McRae series, volume four of,
of Yada Yawa.
And I wrote it before,
in my last edit pass, of course,
was it,
before I fully appreciated the
implications of what we have just read.
To get to the point where you know,
not just think it's possible,
but you know that what we just read
is true,
that God eliminates everything displeasing
and disagreeable through Dode.
And you recognize that the way that
happened is the fulfillment of Pesach,
Matzah, and Bekudim,
and particularly on Matzah,
because Pesach adds to our days.
It elongates our lives.
It's the doorway to life.
It's why Dode is the etz Chaim,
the tree of lives in the garden.
But it's matzah where everything that is
displeasing and disagreeable about us is
removed,
including anything that was flawed about
dote.
It's taken away because the whole process
of fulfilling matzah is explained in the
twenty-second mizmor,
the eighty-eighth mizmor,
and the eighty-ninth mizmor.
And the hundred and third mizmor.
And Isaiah nine and fifty three.
It's all laid out for us that God
laid upon those nephesh soul.
The guilt,
everything that was displeasing and
disagreeable about us was placed on his
soul as he carried it into Sheol.
depositing it there in what's the
equivalent of a black hole,
never to be seen again.
And that is why we are perfected as
the benefit of the covenant on matzah by
those actions.
I had to go back through one of
these books and write out all references
to the idea that the Ruach was doing
something special here.
And I came to that conclusion prior to
knowing Dode's fulfillment of Matzah,
because I want to tell you, it took...
twenty four years of really devoted study
and research through the torah prophets
and psalms before you finally recognize
that this is god's message and that it's
it's as they say hidden in plain sight
and it's reinforced over and over again
and it's the way that it had to
be but prior to knowing that you're saying
well matzah is to unyeast our souls of
the fungus of religion and politics
That which is particularly disagreeable
and displeasing about our nature.
And so trying to figure out how did
that happen?
And if you don't understand that Dode
fulfilled matzah by taking our guilt into
shield and depositing it there,
then
you're left with well okay there's a
reference to a fire uh we're supposed to
approach it on matzah and the fire was
written as isha which should be the
feminine manifestation of fire maybe we
can extract that into that the set apart
spirit who is not mentioned uh somehow uh
plays a role in covering us such that
our our uh sins are no longer seen
because they're covered in light
Matzah is not about adding something like
a garment of light.
It's about taking away something,
that which is displeasing and
disagreeable,
and taking it away and putting it into
a place that's not light,
but totally dark.
It's not about covering over our guilt.
It's about taking it away and eliminating
it.
So I had to go back in and
make those corrections.
I was at least given the opportunity to
do so, which I appreciated.
And it was amazing too that I had
several times tried to delegate this.
Some of those listening,
particularly Mariah, will know this.
Rich also.
I tried to delegate taking those
references out of the books and correcting
them for what Dode had actually achieved.
And as I went through this,
and it only took a couple of hours
with a couple of keyword searches to do
it,
and I should probably go back and do
it with the other books as well.
But the realization is I was not only
wrong in trying to
explain what happened on Matzah,
now that we know exactly what happened on
Matzah,
but also trying to delegate that to
someone else.
It's something that I needed to clean up
and did the cleanup, as they say, on,
well, that was, again,
I guess would be aisle four,
but there'll be on other aisles along the
way.
Now,
one of the things I do want to
discuss here with me,
acknowledging that I extrapolated early
on,
prior to knowing that Dode fulfilled Chag
Matzah,
even though Dode made it very clear that
he has done so.
I should have seen it earlier, but,
you know, to my credit,
I'm the first person in human history to
see it.
So, you know, that part is good,
at least first person in the last two
thousand five hundred years to be for
certain.
Obviously, Dode saw it,
otherwise he wouldn't have volunteered to
fulfill it.
And I think she saw it,
otherwise he wouldn't have written about
it the way that he did.
But the first person to put it all
together and say,
this is exactly what happened.
And one of the things that dawned on
me is, so Rich,
what if we were to go away from
God's instruction for the moment?
God was very clear with me a year
ago at this time.
when he said, all right,
the marginal utility of editing the books
and writing another book is very small
compared to the marginal utility of you
now doing a blog and you speaking to
my people.
And so we went from,
I went from a fellow that translated and
wrote,
I don't know if
Twelve to fourteen hours a day,
seven days a week to a person now
who spends most of his time preparing for
and delivering these programs.
And one of the things that that dawned
on me is that that while I had
made a commitment to.
enhance the books over time to refine them
to share what additional that we had
learned to even correct things that like
the spirits involvement and and.
When the spirit was involved,
but not for us,
the spirit actually carried Dode's nephesh
into Sheol,
protected Dode's nephesh while he was in
Sheol,
and then released Dode's nephesh from
which tells us a lot about the Ruach,
which means that the Ruach cannot be
Yahweh,
but is instead the influence and the power
of Yahweh, an implement of Yahweh.
because otherwise it could not have gone
into Sheol with Dode.
But since we're told the Spirit never left
Dode, that is a requirement.
So when I recognized that there's not only
that realization,
but there's just so many more that are
things that we have learned,
particularly over the last six months,
that if we were to go back now,
and say,
let's do another edit pass through the
books.
There's thirty-five of them,
twenty-five thousand pages.
And let's say that we worked at faster
than anyone has ever worked in terms of
doing an edit of all of the new
things that we have learned and weaving
them through these books and citing the
evidence for them.
And we made just enormous pace at ten
minutes a page.
Well,
ten minutes a page is six pages per
hour.
So if you want to do the math,
if I were to take half of my
time,
I work eighty hours a week at this,
if I were to take half of my
time, forty hours a week,
just to do another edit pass through the
books, which, by the way,
are absolutely overwhelmingly good enough
to direct any soul to Yahweh.
But
If I were to refine them,
you know how much time it would take?
It's a hundred and four weeks.
It's two full years of forty hours a
week to achieve that result.
So.
I think what we're going to do is
what Yahweh said.
Let's look the camera in the eye.
Let's speak directly to the world,
to Goyim and to Yehudim,
and share what we are learning in real
time.
Because that is the joy of these programs,
is that so much of what I'm sharing
with you is something that I've come to
understand quite recently.
And we're developing our...
foundation of understanding literally in
real time.
After twenty-four years of building the
foundation now,
we're watching this
picture that God has presented for us
beautifully framed now.
And all of the contours and details are
just becoming so evident to us that it
is a marvelous experience to be able to
share these thoughts with you in real
time.
And I think what you're noticing here is
that this is inscripted.
This is all very much...
Extemporaneous.
We sit down.
These are all live streams.
There is no prior programming.
Rich and I don't say, okay, Rich,
what do you think we ought to cover
today?
Let's coordinate our notes.
The only thing Rich will do is if
we are making a presentation from...
a particular address within the Torah,
Prophets, or Psalms,
he will have taken a picture of where
we were in that particular studio at the
conclusion of our last program so that if
we're, you know,
I don't like to cite
Yahweh's testimony,
just off the top of my head.
I've spent a lot of time developing these
translations.
They're all my own,
and even the style of the Amplified
translations,
and they're from the oldest extant
sources, the Dead Sea Scrolls,
when they contradict the Masoretic text,
are different than the Masoretic text,
and scrubbed of all the diacritical
religious markings of the Masoretes,
the rabbis.
I want to be able to tell you,
I mean,
I'll share it in some of my commentary
because that commentary was very
thoughtful.
I mean, I'm studying this.
I'm thinking about all these other things.
You're putting it into words that are very
much germane to that topic,
but still interesting.
The majority of every program is
extemporaneous.
And so about the only thing that Rich
and I will coordinate is we'll say, hey,
Rich, it's a beautiful morning.
Welcome.
Welcome back.
Rich gets the big bucks.
So he comes here early in the day.
Somebody accused Rich of being paid for
doing this.
Yeah, he is paid, but he is.
Yes, we're all being compensated by Yawa,
not monetarily,
but in all other ways that matter.
Rich is far and away the most generous
person who I have met relative to the
covenant in terms of he's taking his life
savings and he is investing significantly
to make this Yawa vlog better.
So to accuse him otherwise,
as someone did this morning,
is a is a real shame.
It's interesting, of course,
the person that is accusing him of being
paid stole twenty thousand dollars from my
wife and I on false pretenses and then
thanked us for it by by thrashing us.
So.
You can take that with a grain of
salt if you wish.
But, you know,
we we will have a discussion.
Where do you want to begin today?
And we'll look outside and say, you know,
it's really a pretty day.
Let's let's do it.
Yeah, it is gorgeous.
Let's do one outside.
And this evening we'll return to our
series on returning to the garden.
And that's the kind of discussion we have
on it.
And we just go and we trust one
another to be ready.
to present these live streams,
which are actually very complicated to
produce.
And the investment and equipment to do
this well is exceptional.
So here we have a statement from Yahweh
that I dearly love because when it's
properly understood and translated,
it explains exactly what we've come to
understand.
I think it is the single greatest
discovery in human history.
It not only solves the worst crime ever
perpetrated by man,
that is robbing people.
dode of his dignity,
of his titles and his achievements to
create the myth of Jesus Christ,
who never actually existed,
and then to rob Jews of their inheritance,
which is also part of Christianity.
We solved that crime.
And at the same time,
we have proclaimed the truth about how
Yahweh and Dode, father and son,
work together to perfect us,
to acquit us through their effort
together.
And that is how the sixth mizmor,
our psalm, opens.
Yahweh, God's one and only name,
you consistently prove your case through
me with pervasive arguments which
vindicate me and acquit through me,
thereby eliminating everything which is
displeasing and disagreeable.
I would post that anywhere and stand
behind it and say,
that is one of the most profoundly
important truths ever written.
Your instructions enable me to be correct.
Your willingness to improve me,
to teach me, to guide me,
to train me,
even to provide discipline for me,
make me stronger, strengthening me.
Peel, imperfect, Joseph,
it's an expression of God's desire to do
this through dode, imperfect,
with ongoing implications.
The peel means that the subject, me, dode,
has the benefit of what Yahweh is
achieving through Yatzer.
And this is so important for people to
appreciate.
You see,
In the garden,
the reason that Yahweh caused the fall of
man, and it wasn't Eve,
Eve didn't even exist.
It wasn't Chawa,
the actual name of the woman,
who caused the fall of man.
And it wasn't even man's responsibility
for causing the fall of man.
Yahweh caused the fall of man,
made it very clear,
used the verb in the fall,
and to describe that he caused the fall
of man.
He did so because Adam was not ready.
He was not ready to be of interest
to Yahweh,
was not engaged doing the work that was
required to make the universe better,
make the garden better then and the planet
better and then the universe better.
He showed no indication he could be
trusted.
He was a lousy listener.
He was not responsive to God.
And so everything about Dode was just a
boring and boring
of no value to Yahweh.
Might as well be looking at a goldfish
swimming around in a bowl.
And so Dode is the opposite of that.
He's interesting.
He is a guy that is willing to
work.
He wants to be improved.
He wants to be taught.
The whole idea of teaching is that
I don't know about you, but, you know,
I went to kindergarten,
then went first grade through sixth grade.
We call that grammar school back in the
day.
And then we had a thing called junior
high.
I don't think they call that junior high
anymore,
middle school or whatever they call it
now.
And then they have upper school.
We had junior high and high school.
And then I went to college and then
I got a Ph.D.
in writing thirty five dissertations.
about Yahweh.
And pushing the threshold of human
understanding way beyond where it had ever
been before.
So in that process,
when I was in kindergarten,
first and second grade,
we did not do calculus.
There were no lessons on algebra in the
first grade.
I did not write...
essays in uh in kindergarten you know i
love science but there was no class on
biology or physics in first grade you know
you start at the basics yeah you lay
a foundation if you're going to teach
someone you have to teach them the basics
and then you learn from that you start
with language and and then you build on
top of of
layer and layer and layer to the point
that you can go from well addition and
subtraction to multiplication and division
to things like geometry
and applying those concepts that you've
learned in geometry and then in algebra
and then algebra to trigonometry and to
calculus and then into the concepts of
probability and statistical analysis.
And you build this reservoir of
of knowledge which then properly processed
can lead to understanding if you're taught
the discipline of logic and of reason,
of rhetoric,
of the skills of debate and what are
fallacies versus what is evidence.
provable by evidence and reason.
And that was my discipline growing up.
But that was just an academic education.
That does not prepare anybody for much of
anything.
I'm here to tell you, listen,
I did my thing.
I'm glad I did my thing.
But that is not preparation for life.
You're still, at that point,
you have paid for your education.
You have created zip of value.
Nothing.
You have not made the world one iota
better by capitalizing on the education
that somebody else has provided for you.
In fact, at that point,
you're still the parasite.
until you can pull yourself to the point
free of that,
to the point you can then make a
contribution.
I started in business.
I wasn't very good at it.
I think I've shared that my first year,
about twenty five cents an hour,
worked a hundred hours a week,
which might have gotten to survivable
income.
But I was terrible at it.
I was trying to do the I think
the hardest job in the world, sell things.
And
I was just really crappy at it.
And so the second year decided, well,
I'd like to be a success.
And so I'm going to have to figure
out a way that I can use my
skills.
So my skills were up here primarily.
I didn't have the great personality.
I don't guess I've never had a great
personality, but I was perfect.
smarter than the average lizard out there.
And so I use my noggin to conceive
a way that I could succeed in sales
without ever having to sell.
And it was so insightful that if you
talk to people and find out what they
want and need,
and you figure out a way to give
them what they want to need.
It means that you have to listen to
them,
you have to genuinely care about them,
you have to then process what they have
said,
and then you have to figure out a
way to determine if the difference between
what they want, what they need,
what's good for them,
and how to deliver it to them in
the proper way, because if you do that,
You don't have to sell them anything.
You're offering them what they already
want.
I came up with this approach and made
millions back in the time when millions
were actually real money.
And then parlayed that into company after
company, and I built things.
I hired people.
I conceived new ideas.
I went after them, approached them,
and built.
And
That's the kind of thing that Yawa is
looking for.
And I recognize that in that whole process
of starting and building companies is that
every day you're faced with tremendous
challenges.
You really have to be devoted to the
cause.
You have to invest your own money to
make payroll.
You're the last person that gets paid.
You're responsible for everything.
And yet you need to be able to
delegate.
Otherwise, you can't.
make a meaningful contribution.
And then you have to figure out a
way to share credit and recognize that
when you share credit and you praise
people,
they will very often do what I've seen
so many people do.
That means that they will figure out a
way to turn on you and will use
what you have said positively about them
against you.
And so it is this constant building up
and then being torn down and making a
hundred right decisions in a day and
having the one that wasn't as good as
it maybe could have been or should have
been.
And how you have to recover from that.
It's this discipline.
It gives you grit, backbone, stamina,
resilience.
It builds a sense of character and
confidence.
The only way you know that you can
prevail when times get tough is to have
gone through tough times and to have
prevailed.
This is what God is looking for.
for from us.
It's the thing that Adam did not have.
It's the thing that Dode had.
It is what made Dode so special.
He was a builder.
And so God recognized,
and here's Dode speaking to God.
It says,
your instructions enable me to be correct.
Your willingness is to improve me,
which means that he didn't start perfect.
He didn't start knowing it all.
He was taught and he improved.
He was guided and he was trained.
God provided discipline,
which made Dode stronger.
You know,
It's a tiny little thing,
but many of you know,
because I posted it in the last week,
I have been troubled by a painful back.
And never once in this process did I
say, God,
could you please make the pain go away
so I can be productive?
No.
What you have to do is to show
that you're capable of dealing with
adversity.
that pain is not something that's going to
keep you down, that you can do this.
And it's been difficult to breathe in
deeply enough to do this program because,
well,
you can't speak into a microphone unless
you have air that goes across your vocal
cords.
And when you're sitting down and having
that kind of compression and this...
pain that's where the muscles contract
around it and create that whole it's just
agonizing it's like knives being in you
can't deeply enough to project on a
program like this and I thought that you
know wincing and pain
Pain might be inappropriate.
But it's not like I gave up those
days.
I spent almost all of that time.
I think the entire time I took four
or five hours off my normal schedule where
I just had to lay down on a
hard surface and let everything chill out
a bit.
But other than that, I was translating.
I was working on Bashar Harold Volume
Four, and here we are back at it.
I know.
We may limit our evening program to an
hour tonight as opposed to two so that
I'm able to be functional as well
tomorrow.
But this is the kind of stuff that
Yawa is looking for.
When we had this group of former insiders
that turned into complete malcontent
dunderheads and decided that they would
trash everything that they had once
supported, the proper...
Answer is not to say,
have them just go away.
They're an irritant.
No, it's to plow right through,
to continue the course.
Expose and condemn as God shows the way
to do that based upon his prophetic
instructions.
But keep right on going.
Look at Moshe.
Boy, he had to do it, didn't he?
Look at Dode.
He really had to do it.
Didn't he?
Both of them encountered inside rebellions
and painful ones,
but they had to demonstrate that they
could endure even through it.
And this is what God wants of us.
So your instructions enable me to be
correct.
a willingness to improve me, to teach me,
to guide me, to train me,
to discipline me, to make me stronger.
All of these things are so powerful.
And you are never overly protective or
antagonistic.
God, I love this.
It's a celebration of everything that Dode
represents.
It's a celebration of the thing that I
did not understand about the garden until
quite recently.
Yahweh was overprotective in the garden.
There was no outside stimuli.
Adam had no incentive to work.
He had no grit.
He didn't have to overcome any challenge
with all the food he could possibly want.
He finally had the company of a lovely
woman.
He never was cold, never was hot,
never was bothered, never stumbled,
never fell and had to get up.
He was coddled.
It was a protective and walled,
sheltered garden.
And so in that environment,
he was never tested.
He was never tried.
He never failed and had to show some
resolve.
And he was a deadbeat.
He just didn't work.
He made no contribution.
His primary purpose was to work and to
be observant.
And he was neither of the two.
And so I realized for the first time
why God caused the fall of man,
because in that garden,
he was overly protected,
which means man had to be released from
the garden.
And it took us six thousand years for
us to finally develop their fervor,
the passion,
the enthusiasm to get it right.
Now, that's a bit of an exaggeration.
It took us three thousand years because
dough did it.
Dode did all of these things.
It took us another three thousand years,
of course,
after Dode to be able to explain what
I'm explaining to you right now.
So what God says is you're not overly
protective and you're not antagonistic.
You're not displeased and all emotionally
worked up.
You're neither toxic nor venomous.
And this is important here.
Listen, we know.
Because Dode's life is an open book to
us.
We know that Dode messed up bunches of
times.
I mean, bunches of times.
And Yama only got
really frustrated with him a couple of
times.
One is, you know,
Dode had made some bad choices and God
said, well, I'll tell you what,
we'll work this through and give you three
options here.
And Dode chose the worst of the three
options.
And you could tell that God says,
you know, come on, man,
I want to teach you a lesson here,
but this is getting to be painful.
You really need to man up here.
And this is when the option he should
have chosen was to continually be pursued
and antagonized really by Israel.
It's what Moshe ultimately had to man up
and endure.
It's what I am enduring now.
You have to at some point be willing
to say, yeah, bring it on.
I trust our relationship to the point that
You can bring it on and we will
prevail.
I'm not going to quit.
No matter how disagreeable this is,
I'm going to trust you to get us
through it.
And I'm going to work with you.
every moment of the way.
And Dode had his issue.
And then one time he sent an
extraordinarily good man off to fight a
battle that he thought he would die in
so that he could take his wife.
And Yahweh had a timeout with Dode for
having done so.
It wasn't the fact that it was Dode's
eighth wife or that eighteenth,
if you consider his other sexual partners.
Seventeen was certainly fine with Yahweh.
Eighteen would have been fine with Yahweh
too.
uh,
tells you that Yahweh's not into monogamy,
doesn't it?
Uh, this one, uh, one, one wife, uh,
one husband, uh, thing, um, yeah,
it's not, not God's thing.
Uh,
monogamy is not God's thing unless it's,
uh, unless it's with him.
Uh, he doesn't do, uh, uh,
he doesn't share with false gods, but, uh,
when Doe did that, there was a timeout,
not because it was the eighteenth in his,
uh, in his, uh, group of, of, um,
women that he enjoyed their company,
but because of the way he went about
forming this relationship with her.
So these are God saying, you know,
I'm going to let you fall.
I'm not going to keep you from making
mistakes because it is by making a mistake
and recovering from it that you show that
you're trustworthy.
You heard that correctly?
It is by making a mistake and correcting
your mistake and growing from it that you
show that you're trustworthy.
Now,
that did not mean that when Dode made
a mistake like, for example,
he made when he got mad at God
for killing.
The man turned woman,
first transgender story is actually in
Second Samuel six,
who interfered with the transport of the
Ark of the Covenant and the bulls work
to get it to the proper position.
When Dode got all upset with Yahweh for
having killed the man turned woman who
interfered in this way, God intervened.
Did not become antagonistic and he
certainly wasn't protective of Dode in the
sense of he allowed Dode to stew.
He allowed Dode to make the mistake,
but he then gave Dode the time and
he came to Dode with with the answer
and.
What's interesting is that while the
answer is there, which was Obed Edom,
who is the man from Edom,
is going to take care of the repositioning
of the ark so that you can celebrate
as the high priest on Yom Kippur when
you come back.
And oh, by the way,
the rest of you,
after wearing the ephod of the high
priest,
can be naked because we are going back
to the garden.
That is exactly what's going to happen in
year six thousand in twenty thirty three.
What you don't find is going back and
say, well,
then I need to rewrite my narrative and
I want to rewrite maybe one of my
mizmor to convey my mistake and then
correct it.
No.
Recognize what was true and moved on.
That's something also to keep in mind.
And it's also something that guides what
we're currently doing is that.
You don't wrote his Ms.
Moore with what he knew at the time.
I am certain that he came to know
more,
the more that he was with the Iowa
and the man,
but it wasn't appropriate to go back and
change the others.
They were, they were right.
They just weren't as completely right as
what he would learn over time.
This is all part of the process.
God can not be overly protective.
He cannot.
create an environment where we cannot
fall.
He has to let us fall.
It's like every parent.
Eventually,
you have to let your child stumble.
You have to let them experience failure.
And then you have to support them in
such a way that they understand how
important it is to get back up,
dust yourself off, and go again.
but cognizant of what you learned so that
you grow.
So this is our lyrics to saying Psalm
six, one,
probably gone very close to an hour now.
And we've covered one, one statement.
He's got two fingers held, held up.
Oh, two minutes shy of an hour.
And we've done our normal thing.
We've almost finished our analysis of
Mismore Psalm six one.
Although I did want to share some
concluding thoughts with you on it,
which is the realization that Yahweh helps
us become right with him so that he
can vindicate us.
It serves as a rebuke of religion.
because this is the whole process we're
going through.
And this affirmation is irrefutably and
undeniably established through Dode's life
and through his lyrics.
He is the antidote for false perceptions
that are contained in the Talmud and the
New Testament.
By closely examining and carefully
considering the Torah,
by listening to the revelations that
Yahweh conveyed to the prophet Shamuel,
Doad came to know and trust Yahweh.
A highly imperfect man was completely
vindicated.
My Leia has got her little Kara,
and there we are.
Hello there, Kara.
This is an imperfect dog that is as
sweet as they could possibly be.
She does like beards, however.
She is quite the kisser,
as you can also see.
She is a sweetheart.
This is Kara.
She is a student also of the Torah
because...
She gets doggy daycare,
which means that all three dogs, Asher,
thank you for the ear kisses, Asher,
Wookie, and Kara,
all get to sit around me for hours
each day as we translate and share.
And I very often read what I have
written out loud because that's really the
best way to process it,
to come first to own the material,
but to hear how it sounds to the
ear.
And so
She is very accustomed to this.
And then in the evening,
we will play these programs to listen to
what we have conveyed.
And she is a very good listener.
So Cara,
that is all a very good thing.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
So this is Cara.
And with Cara on top of the table,
Wookie and Asher are both jealous and now
want to tell you
Okay, attention.
And we have finished our first hour.
So as soon as we finish this quick
review, we'll be with you.
So it's a family program and this is
the way we do it.
And it's the way that we're going to
continue to do it.
And I have been informed by Yawa that
my retirement from doing this and also the
team that is working with me,
that our retirement will come in one
thousand and eight years from now.
Then we are officially retired and just
get to enjoy the benefits of this.
But we will be working for this next
eight years and then we will work for
a thousand years thereafter as this final
remnant is brought back into the garden.
And we instill lots of dode in them,
a sense of work ethic,
a sense of a desire to learn and
to grow and to be
able to fall and get up and make
another fresh start,
having learned something from the last
mistake,
to be an imperfect individual who is
interesting.
In fact,
this is one of the things that it's
just so obvious to me,
is that if we were perfect,
let's just say that we want to take
the religious concept of perfect,
God's perfect,
that religious concept of perfect,
and we were all perfect.
Well,
there would be only one paradigm of
perfect.
I'd be God.
And so God's eternity,
if we're all going to be perfect,
would be to be surrounded by all little
me's, many me's.
Boring.
Oh, my God, would that be boring?
It's the things that make us interesting
are the things like Dode, where God said,
I like this guy.
This is my idea of a great guy.
He was interesting.
He just had so much personality.
And so God's not looking for clones.
He's looking for interesting.
Eternity is a long time.
He wants people who he knows he can
trust, who he can rely upon,
who he can teach, who will listen,
who want to grow,
who he can share eternity with and trust
that they're going to do the right thing
when given the opportunity.
And if we make a mistake,
we learn from it and go from there.
This is what God is looking for.
So this whole religious nonsense about
perfection is just not understanding the
word.
I like it actually as a verb where
the purpose of the second benefit really
of the covenant,
it's a condition of the covenant and then
a benefit of the covenant is a walk
to God and allow him to perfect us.
And when you're dealing with perfection,
perfect as a verb,
that I see it as refine, improve,
knock off some of the rough edges here
and there,
allow us to grow and achieve some
confidence along the way.
I like the idea of being perfected.
I just don't like the idea of being
perfect.
I don't think God does either.
I don't think it's realistic and I don't
think it's even desirable.
But being perfected absolutely is and
doubt is the epitome of this.
So this is a marvelous, marvelous, I mean,
just tremendous affirmation of everything
we have come to know and share.
And here it is so brilliantly presented.
And
The opening line of the sixth,
the number of man, Mizmor,
of God's beloved son, our Savior,
our King, the Messiah,
the man who is not only the exemplar
of Yisrael and the exemplar of the
covenant,
but the man who made it all possible
for us to share in everything that God
is offering.
Thank you for listening.
I know I talked a lot here and
talked probably too fast at times.
There were just so many things I wanted
to share because this message resonates
with me.
It is one of those that I celebrate
and I'm so thankful for Yahweh for sharing
it with us.
Have a wonderful rest of your day.
Hope to see you this evening as we
do family hour.
That will be at,
I guess that's five o'clock Eastern
Standard Time,
six o'clock Atlantic Time here in the
beautiful Caribbean Sea.
But it'll be five o'clock Eastern Standard
Time this evening.
We will do family hour with the normal
cast of characters and look forward to
seeing you there as we continue with our
series, Return to the Garden.
Good day.